Hi there and welcome back.
In this video I wanted to show you how to create a nice
homepage for your blog,
so that you don't just get "Hello, world!"
when you arrive here.
We're gonna show your blog,
and also a list of the posts that are available in your
blog right now for people to read.
Let's go and do that.
Going back over to PyCharm, we're gonna stop our app
and close it down.
And then instead of returning "Hello, world!"
here, we're going to return render_template.
And what we're gonna render is home.jinja2.
And to this home.jinja2 we're gonna pass the posts
that we currently have available in our in-memory database
which is this dictionary.
So we're gonna say posts equal posts.
Now we have this template that will have access to all our
posts, so we can go and create it,
and then make it do what we want it to do.
So the first we're gonna do,
extends base.jinja2, and then the block content.
Make sure to not leave any spaces in endblock,
and you know to spell these things correctly
using lower-case letters.
Then we can in here put
what we want our homepage to be like.
This, by the way, is something I really love about
the development workflow with Flask.
You define your route, what your user can access,
and then with a simple function that just renders a template
and give it some information,
you can go and create a template that shows the user
exactly what you want.
So in this case we're gonna say h1 welcome to your blog,
and then we're gonna do h2 posts,
and now we're gonna put in an unordered list.
An unordered list in HTML is just a bullet point list.
And in here we're gonna put an li tag for our first post.
So we're gonna say the li tag is a list item,
the a tag is an anchor tag, a link.
The href is the URL that this link goes to,
or the endpoint.
So slash post, slash zero.
Then in here we're gonna type in Post 1, for example.
Then we're gonna close the a tag, close the li tag.
When users go to our homepage now,
they're going to see this big title, slightly smaller title,
and then some bullet points
with one element in the bullet points,
which is a link to the first post that exists.
Let's go and run our app,
and then go back to here and refresh it.
Ope, I misspelt that, I didn't notice that,
we can rename it.
Homa.jinja2, home.jinja2, there we go.
Remember to stop your app, restart it.
There you have it, that was mildly anticlimactic,
I did not spot that.
Welcome to your blog, and then Posts, slightly smaller font,
then you have your first post here.
You click on it, it goes to your post.
Great stuff.
Except, if we go and add a new post,
and you know, we go back to the homepage, it's not there.
Of course, it shouldn't be there.
Our homepage...
We can stop the app by the way.
Our homepage is only rendering this list here.
This list doesn't depend on our posts at all,
it's just a static HTML, we've not told it to
you know, have one of these for each post
or anything like that.
So let's do it.
In jinja2 you actually have forloops as well,
and they look extremely similar, the same basically,
to Python loops.
But in jinja you have to start with these percent sign,
then you can say for post id, post in posts.items.
This is us iterating over a dictionary,
and then at the end of the forloop
you have to type this endfor.
Normally in Python you would have a colon,
and then you have some indentation,
and the at then end of the indented block,
Python would know you've reached the end of the forloop.
But jinja does not know that,
because HTML doesn't care about indentation.
So that's why you have this forloop,
and it is endfor.
Whatever goes inside here
doesn't have to be indented, but I just like it better.
We'll repeat once for every posts.items.
Remember when you do post an item you get the post id
and the post content.
So here instead of this href,
we can do something a bit more complicated,
which is URL_for.
You can use Flask's URL for here to generate a link,
the post page passing in.
The post id parameter that it needs,
and of course the value of that post id
is the id inside our dictionary.
Instead of post1, we can have post title there.
So this is looking slightly uglier,
but all that's happening here is that we have this href,
which is the URL that we're linking to,
and that is this.
This in jinja2 is gonna get replaced for the URL that
takes us to this function.
And that takes in a post id,
which we're getting from our iteration.
Inside the a tag which starts here and ends here,
we have the post title as something else
that the jinja template is going to replace.
So we're gonna see for each post,
a link to it, and the post title being linked.
Let's start our app again,
and go over to Chrome, we're gonna refresh.
Now you can see that the first post is called Hello, world,
because that's the title of our first post in our database.
If we go and create a new post,
we go to that page, then we can delete this stuff there
and go back to the homepage,
and now you have another item in your list.
Of course, if you stop and start the app again,
that will be gone because this is an in-memory database.
It doesn't persist between executions,
but if you've done the earlier sections of this course,
you know how to replace this
for a SQL I database for example.
So it could be that straightforward.
Instead of retrieving and saving things to this dictionary,
you could retrieve them and save them from a SQL I database,
and now you've got yourself
a pretty stable blogging platform in there.
And of course, there are countless websites to develop.
Some that exist already, some that do not exist already.
Use your imagination and feel free to develop
anything you want.
Of course there's much more to learn about Flask
and about web development as a whole.
How to style your pages a bit nicer,
how to use JavaScript to include user interactions in pages.
There are more things to learn about Flask,
like how to log users in,
and how to remember them when they come back, and so forth.
This course is not meant to give you an in-depth explanation
on Flask, but it is a subject
I feel really passionate about.
And I think really, it's a great thing to know
in today's world of technology.
Websites are everywhere,
and if you are interested in learning about web development,
then it's a great place to start.
Hopefully this was interesting,
and I'll see you on the next video.